Add custom BMP icons and NDS banners for games and folders (#64)
LNH-team/pico-launcher: docs/Customization.md

# Customization

> Pico Launcher supports custom icons and banners for files and folders by placing files in the right locations on the SD card. Icons and banners follow the same folder structure: system files by game code, user files by filename, and folder-level overrides.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pico Launcher supports custom icons and banners for files and folders by placing files in the right locations on the SD card. Icons and banners follow the same folder structure: nds and gba files by game code, user files by filename, and folder-level overrides.
```

Author: ok

## Icons
Custom icons are `.bmp` files. DS roms already show the icon from their internal banner, so custom icons are mainly useful for GBA roms and other file types.

> ### System icons (by game code)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Icons by game code
```

Author: ok

Place a `<gamecode>.bmp` file under `/_pico/icons/nds/` or `/_pico/icons/gba/`. For example:
- `/_pico/icons/gba/BPEE.bmp` - Pokémon Emerald (GBA)

> - `/_pico/icons/nds/ADAE.bmp` - Pokémon Diamond (NDS, overrides the built-in banner)

Reviewer: I would prefer to avoid using any game names here. As example use ABCD.bmp and EFGH.bmp or whatever

Author: OK

> - `/_pico/icons/nds/EFGH.bmp` - icon for the NDS game with game code `EFGH` (overrides the built-in banner)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `/_pico/icons/nds/EFGH.bmp` - icon for the NDS game with game code `EFGH` (overrides the built-in banner icon)
```

Author: ok

### User icons (by filename)

> Place a `<filename>.bmp` file under `/_pico/icons/user/`. For example, `myGame.gba.bmp` will be used for any file named `myGame.gba`. This takes precedence over a game-code icon and over the internal banner icon of DS roms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Place a `<filename>.bmp` file under `/_pico/icons/user/`. For example, `myGame.gba.bmp` will be used for any file named `myGame.gba`. This takes precedence over a game code based icon and over the internal banner icon of DS roms.
```

Author: OK

### Folder icons
Place a file named `folder.bmp` directly inside the folder you want to customise. For example:
- `/GBA Games/folder.bmp` - icon for the `GBA Games` folder

> - `/GBA Games/Pokemon/folder.bmp` - icon for the `Pokemon` subfolder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `/GBA Games/Racing/folder.bmp` - icon for the `Racing` subfolder
```

Author: Ok

> Each folder's `folder.bmp` is independent - two folders with the same name can have different icons. Since `.bmp` files are not a recognised ROM type, `folder.bmp` is never shown as a browser entry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each folder's `folder.bmp` is independent - two folders with the same name can have different icons. Since `.bmp` files are not a recognised ROM type, `folder.bmp` is never shown in the rom browser.
```

Reviewer: I'm also wondering if there would be people that setup some .bmp file association. If that's the case we would need to make the file name start with a period, such that it is always hidden 🤔

Author: Id rather keep `folder.bmp`. It follows the same convention Windows uses for album art (`folder.jpg`), so it feels familiar. Files starting with a period are hidden or hard to create on Windows and Mac, and most users just drag files onto the SD card. A `.bmp` association is a rare case

Maybe make the browser always skip these reserved names instead. Thoughts?

Reviewer: Ah yes that would be an option if it turns out to be an issue for someone

A folder can also use a `folder.bnr` file (see [Folder banners](#folder-banners)) for its icon, in the same location. If both `folder.bnr` and `folder.bmp` exist, `folder.bnr` takes priority.

### Icon priority

> User icon (`/_pico/icons/user/`) > system icon (`/_pico/icons/nds/` or `/_pico/icons/gba/`) > internal banner > theme default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
User icon (`/_pico/icons/user/`) > game code based icon (`/_pico/icons/nds/` or `/_pico/icons/gba/`) > internal banner > theme default.
```

Author: OK

Folder icons are looked up independently and do not participate in the above priority chain: `folder.bnr` > `folder.bmp` > theme default.

### Icon format

> Icons must be **32×32 pixels, 4 bpp (16 colors), uncompressed `.bmp`** files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Icons must be **32×32 pixels, 4 bpp (16 colors), uncompressed `.bmp`** files, with the first palette color treated as transparent.
```

Author: ok

## Banners

> Custom banners contain custom game titles, subtitles, and animated icons, placed via `.bnr` files. This is especially useful for adding custom titles and animated icons to GBA ROMs or other systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom banners are `.bnr` files containing custom game titles, subtitles and (animated) icons. This is especially useful for adding custom titles and (animated) icons to GBA ROMs or other systems.
```

Author: ok

> ### System banners (by game code)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Banners by game code
```

Author: ok

Place a `<gamecode>.bnr` file under `/_pico/banners/nds/` or `/_pico/banners/gba/`. For example:
- `/_pico/banners/gba/BPEE.bnr` - Pokémon Emerald (GBA)

> - `/_pico/banners/nds/ADAE.bnr` - Pokémon Diamond (NDS, overrides the built-in banner)

Reviewer: Use a generic example, as explained in my other comment

Author: ok

### User banners (by filename)
Place a `<filename>.bnr` file under `/_pico/banners/user/`. For example, `myGame.gba.bnr` will be used for any file named `myGame.gba`.

### Folder banners
Place a file named `folder.bnr` directly inside the folder you want to customise. For example:

> - `/GBA Games/folder.bnr` - custom icon and title for the `GBA Games` folder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `/GBA Games/folder.bnr` - custom banner for the `GBA Games` folder
```

Author: ok

> This gives the folder a custom icon (static or animated) and replaces its displayed name with the banner's title, anywhere the folder's name is shown. The folder's actual name on the SD card (used for navigation) is unchanged. Folder banners do not affect the folder's cover image, which always shows the same generic graphic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This gives the folder a custom icon (static or animated) and replaces its displayed name with the banner's title, anywhere the folder's name is shown. The folder's actual name on the SD card (used for navigation) is unchanged. Folder banners do not affect the folder's cover image.
```

Author: ok

### Banner priority

> User banner (`/_pico/banners/user/`) > system banner (`/_pico/banners/nds/` or `/_pico/banners/gba/`) > built-in ROM banner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
User banner (`/_pico/banners/user/`) > game code based banner (`/_pico/banners/nds/` or `/_pico/banners/gba/`) > built-in ROM banner.
```

Author: ok

Folder banners (`folder.bnr`) are looked up independently and do not participate in the above priority chain.

### Banner format

> Banners must be standard Nintendo DS banner files (usually named `.bnr` or `banner.bin`). Both static icons and animated DSi-style icons are supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Banners must be standard Nintendo DS(i) banner files (usually named `.bnr` or `banner.bin`). Both static icons and animated DSi-style icons are supported.
```
